# Oopsie 🫢🫣

Artifacts for the VLDB 2027 submission "Static Type Checking for Database Access Code"

Under construction 🏗️

## Overview

This repository contains the source code of the _Oopsie_ checker (under its former name "OPSC") and the artifacts to reproduce the results of the paper's experiments.
These include the source code or patches for the example projects used in the paper, and the scripts to run the experiments.

### Repository Structure

Below is an overview of the directories and files included in this artifact:

| Directory / File | Description                                                                       |
| :--- |:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 📁 **`src/opsc/`** | The source code of the *Oopsie* checker (mainline Java 17+ edition).              |
| 📁 **`src/opsc-java8/`** | The source code of the *Oopsie* checker (Java 8 edition for OSCAR).               |
| 📁 **`projects/`** | The example target projects used for the experiments.                             |
| 📁 **`scripts/`** | Python and Bash scripts executed during the automated experiments.                |
| 📁 **`data/expected/`** | The expected artifacts for output comparison.                                     |
| 📁 **`data/generated/`** | The final artifacts generated dynamically by the experiments.                     |
| 📁 **`logs/`** | Raw output generated by the experiments (e.g., compilation logs, checker output). |
| 📄 **`start_main.sh`** | Entry point script to start the main experiments (see below).                     |
| 📄 **`start_performance.sh`** | Entry point script to start the performance evaluation experiments (see below).   |

## Example projects

The projects used in the paper are located in `projects/`.
For the handwritten test cases, and the O'Reilly: bank project, the source code is provided.
For the remaining projects (java-design-pattern, JDBC-Course, OSCAR, OpenNMS and EscadaTPC-C), we provide scripts that download the source code and apply the necessary patches to compile the code with the _Oopsie_ checker, with manual type annotations if applicable.


## Experiments

### Requirements

* Docker, Docker Compose

### Main experiment

This experiment compiles all projects with the _Oopsie_ checker once (ad-hoc analysis); OSCAR and OpenNMS are additionally compiled with manual type annotations.

#### How to run

```
./start_main.sh
```

Expected run time: [???]

#### Steps

* Download and patch the projects
* Build the Docker image (the following steps are executed inside the Docker container)
* Compile _Oopsie_ (OPSC)
* Compile the projects with the checker
* Collect and process the results

> [!NOTE]
> For OpenNMS, additional project dependencies will be compiled before the module to be checked is compiled (displayed as `Running prerun.sh`). This should take around ??? minutes.
> OSCAR, which consists of a Maven project and a Gradle project, has the longest compilation time at around ??? minutes.

#### Results

The experiment will produce the following artifacts:
* `data/summary.csv` – Statistics on the statements, getters and setters found in each project, as well as aggregated checker results, as represented in Tables 2 and 3 and Figures 4–6 in the paper.
* `data/{project}_run/cleaned_statements.csv` - A CSV file containing information on the statements processed by the checker (including unsupported ones).
* `data/{project}_run/cleaned_bindings.csv` - A CSV file containing information on the getters and setters processed by the checker.

### Performance experiment

Compile OSCAR and OpenNMS with Oopsie, with the Value Checker, but without _Oopsie_, and without any checker.
Trimmed averages (i.e. averages of the five runs after removing the minimum and maximum) of the compilation times and memory usage (maximum resident set size) are printed.

#### How to run

```
./start_performance.sh
```

Expected run time: [???]
